add PAR script action (#31188)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/actions/private_actions/update_private_action_runner.md

---
title: Update the Private Action Runner
disable_toc: false
---

## Overview

This page explains how to update the private action runner (PAR). Currently, the PAR is on v{{< private-action-runner-version "private-action-runner" >}}.

## Docker mode
Navigate to the directory where you started the PAR. Next, navigate to the `config` directory, then the `config.yaml` file. 

Find the current ID of your container:
```bash
docker ps
```

Stop the container:
```bash
docker stop <id>
```

Start a new container with [the latest image][2]. Environment variables are no longer needed. Everything is configured in the `config/config.yaml` file.

Run:
```bash
docker run -d \
 --cpus="0.25" \
 --memory="1g"  \
 -e DD_PRIVATE_RUNNER_CONFIG_DIR=/etc/dd-action-runner/config 
 -v ./config:/etc/dd-action-runner/config \
 --health-cmd "curl http://localhost:9016/liveness" \
 --health-interval 10s \
 --health-timeout 10s \
 --health-retries 3 gcr.io/datadoghq/private-action-runner:v1.7.0
```

After confirming the new PAR version is working as expected, remove the old version:
```bash
docker rm <id>
```

To check the PAR logs: 
```bash
docker logs <id-of-container>
```

## Docker compose mode

> Navigate to the directory containing your `docker-compose.yaml` file. Next, navigate to the `config` directory, then the `config.yaml` file. Update the `image` property of the PAR and point to the latest version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the directory containing your `docker-compose.yaml` file.
```
The update should only be in the docker-compose.yaml

```yaml
services:
  private-actions-runner:
    image: gcr.io/datadoghq/private-action-runner:<latest_version>
    cpus: 25
    mem_limit: 1g
    deploy:
      replicas: 1
    environment:
      - DD_BASE_URL=https://app.datadoghq.com
      - DD_PRIVATE_RUNNER_CONFIG_DIR=/etc/dd-action-runner/config 
      - RUNNER_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN=<the_token>
      - STATSD_ENABLED=true
    volumes:
      - "./config:/etc/dd-action-runner/config"

> 

Reviewer: I believe this code block should close here

Start the container again:
```bash
docker compose up -d
```

To check the logs:
```bash
docker compose logs runner
```

## Helm mode
When using Helm, there are two options for upgrading the PAR: 

> 1. **(Recommended)** Upgrade the chart, which will use the latest version of the PAR. There may be changes to the chart; please review [our changelog][8].

Reviewer: the changelog link is not working

1. Upgrade the runner without upgrading the chart.

#### Upgrading the chart (recommended)

Navigate to the directory containing your `values.yaml` file and run:

```bash
helm repo update
helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> datadog/private-action-runner -f ./values.yaml
```

### Upgrading the PAR only

> Specify the PAR version in your `values.yaml` under the `common.image.tag` key with the values found [here][9]:

Reviewer: this log is not working either

Author: thank you for catching these links! i forgot to fix them when i moved the updating PAR section to a new page.

---
title: Update the Private Action Runner
disable_toc: false
---

## Overview

> This page explains how to update the private action runner (PAR). Currently, the PAR is on v{{< private-action-runner-version "private-action-runner" >}}.

Reviewer 2: I would add a sentence listing the three different installation methods so users know they need to scroll down to find the appropriate section.

## Docker mode
Navigate to the directory where you started the PAR. Next, navigate to the `config` directory, then the `config.yaml` file. 

Find the current ID of your container:
```bash
docker ps
```

Stop the container:
```bash
docker stop <id>
```

> Start a new container with [the latest image][1]. Environment variables are no longer needed. Everything is configured in the `config/config.yaml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start a new container with [the latest image][1]. Environment variables are not needed. Everything is configured in the `config/config.yaml` file.
```

 -v ./config:/etc/dd-action-runner/config \
 --health-cmd "curl http://localhost:9016/liveness" \
 --health-interval 10s \
 --health-timeout 10s \
 --health-retries 3 gcr.io/datadoghq/private-action-runner:v{{< private-action-runner-version "private-action-runner" >}}
```

After confirming the new PAR version is working as expected, remove the old version:
```bash
docker rm <id>
```

To check the PAR logs: 
```bash
docker logs <id-of-container>
```

## Docker compose mode
Navigate to the directory containing your `docker-compose.yaml` file.

```yaml
services:
  private-actions-runner:
    image: gcr.io/datadoghq/private-action-runner:<latest_version>
    cpus: 25
    mem_limit: 1g
    deploy:
      replicas: 1
    environment:
      - DD_BASE_URL=https://app.datadoghq.com
      - DD_PRIVATE_RUNNER_CONFIG_DIR=/etc/dd-action-runner/config 
      - RUNNER_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN=<the_token>
      - STATSD_ENABLED=true
    volumes:
      - "./config:/etc/dd-action-runner/config"

Start the container again:
```bash
docker compose up -d
```

To check the logs:
```bash
docker compose logs runner
```

## Helm mode
When using Helm, there are two options for upgrading the PAR: 

> 1. **(Recommended)** Upgrade the chart, which will use the latest version of the PAR. There may be changes to the chart; please review [our changelog][2].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **(Recommended)** Upgrade the chart, which will use the latest version of the PAR. There may be changes to the chart; please review [the changelog][2].
```
